When we first clicked into the dashboards panel
in the main view of the merchandise store property,
we saw several shared views.
Shared views are created by one user and shared with other users who access the view.
Let's see how we would share a dashboard that we've created.
You do need to have a collaborate access to the view to share a dashboard.
If you click Share at the top of a dashboard and you see share object,
this means that you do have collaborate access and you can
share the dashboard to be viewed by anyone who does access the view.
Share object is a little bit of an unexpected name,
but this does just mean share the dashboard for anyone who accesses the view.
Let's talk about sharing outside of the view by exporting or by emailing.
We can export or email built-in reports,
or customer reports, or dashboards.
The export and email features are fairly straightforward.
Let's check them out in our Ecommerce by Country custom report.
For export, we have the option of PDF Google Sheets,
Excel, and CSV format.
If we click Share,
this is the email feature.
We can share as PDF, Excel, or CSV.
Notice that we can set up the email to be recurring.
We could send it one time only or we could pick
an interval anywhere from daily to quarterly.
I believe that this is actually the only instance in
the GUI where we do see quarterly as an option for a time interval.
Let's say I'm going to send this to manager@xyz.com monthly.
Note that when you click Send for a scheduled email,
you're not sending right now.
You're scheduling the email to go out.
If you do ever want to cancel that email,
you can go into the Admin,
Scheduled Emails, and Delete.
The scheduling of dashboards, custom reports,
and built-in reports is a useful and important feature
because it allows you to more easily keep different stakeholders involved.
You're not going to think of all the questions that you need to on your own.
You want to keep other stakeholders involved with
different perspectives and different questions
for different types of analysis and insight.
The reason that it's recommended to use dashboards and custom reports for
your scheduled emails is that you can make them very customized to each stakeholder.
We definitely don't want to send the same information to everyone.
These are some examples of the types of data that we
would want to surface for different roles within our organization.
A designer or a developer would not be as
interested in the same things as a social media manager.
Notice that the format I'm suggesting here is not a built-in report.
We're going to be able to do a better job of sending relevant reports to
different stakeholders if we use a dashboard or a custom report.
Let's consider other ways to export Google Analytics data or at least to view
Google Analytics data outside of GA. We want to remember visualization tools,
especially Data Studio, which makes it so easy for us
to pull in Google Analytics data and visualize it in different ways.
So, we're not so much exporting to Data Studio,
but we definitely can surface Google Analytics data
richly in Data Studio as another environment.
Another export option that will check out is the Google Analytics Spreadsheet Add-on
that will provide additional flexibility for getting GA data into Google Sheets.
We're in an empty Google Sheet.
I'm going to click Add-ons, Get add-ons.
This is the Google Analytics Spreadsheet Add-on.
Add. Allow. Now in our Add-ons menu,
we have the Google Analytics Spreadsheet option: Create new report.
You do need edit access to the view that you do want to read from.
For dimensions, let's say,
Source/Medium, Metrics, Sessions, Bounce Rate.
I'll just do something very basic.
We can add segments as well.
We want to stay aware of sampling if we do at segments.
We'll just call the report Source/Medium.
Click Create Report to create the configuration.
Click again on Add-ons, Google Analytics,
and we could either schedule the report to run at a regular interval,
we'll cancel out of this for now,
or run the report right now.
Note that you can't have more than one report configuration per sheet,
which can be a good way to pull in data from multiple GA views at one time.
To learn more about the Google Analytics Spreadsheet plugin,
search for Google Analytics Spreadsheet Add-on,
and there's some good additional information here.
Also, as you're putting together your exports,
you can refer to the Google Analytics Dimensions and Metrics Explorer.
This is a listing of all of the dimensions and metrics that are
available through the API and through the Google Analytics UI.
So, for instance, instead of searching through the UI for
the goal dimensions and metrics that you could export,
you can list them out in the Dimensions and Metrics Explorer.